feat: initial proposal to use http headers (#74)
oauth-wg/draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth: draft-ietf-oauth-attestation-based-client-auth.md

normative:
  RFC3986: RFC3986
  RFC7800: RFC7800
  RFC7591: RFC7591
  RFC7519: RFC7519
  RFC8414: RFC8414
  RFC8725: RFC8725
  RFC9110: RFC9110
  RFC9112: RFC9112
informative:
  RFC6749: RFC6749
  ARF:
  	title: "The European Digital Identity Wallet Architecture and Reference Framework"

--- abstract

> This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to provide an attestation in order to authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to authenticate.
```

Reviewer 2: How about that? If we rename the draft we may rename attestation, but until then I would keep it
```suggestion
This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include a key-bound attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to utilize this key-bound attestation to authenticate.
```

Reviewer: I like your proposal.

  RFC7519: RFC7519
  RFC8414: RFC8414
  RFC8725: RFC8725

>   RFC9110: RFC9110

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  RFC9110: RFC9110
  RFC9112: RFC9112
```

informative:
  RFC6749: RFC6749
  ARF:
  	title: "The European Digital Identity Wallet Architecture and Reference Framework"

--- abstract

> This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorisation Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to provide an attestation to an Authorisation server or Resource Server in order to authenticate as a Client Instance.

Reviewer 2: add that this can be used as client authentication mechanisms for the AS

Reviewer 3: and Authorization rather than Authorisation (sorry, but for consistency with all the other OAuth RFCs that use that spelling)

> This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to provide an attestation to an Authorization server or Resource Server in order to authenticate as a Client Instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This specification introduces an extension to the OAuth 2.0 protocol, as outlined in {{RFC6749}}, enabling Client Instances to include an attestation in their interactions with Authorization Servers or Resource Servers. This method allows Client Instances, typically considered as public clients in traditional deployments, to authenticate to an Authorization Server or Resource Server by providing an attestation, thereby enhancing the authentication process for Client Instances.
```

Reviewer: I would argue the client instance authenticates as a certain client id from the perspective of the AS. As a test, a client instance could use different JWTs with different confirmation keys but would be still the same client.

Author: ```suggestion
This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to provide an attestation in order to authenticate as an instance of a particular Client.
```

  RFC7519: RFC7519
  RFC8414: RFC8414
  RFC8725: RFC8725
  RFC9110: RFC9110
  RFC9112: RFC9112
informative:
  RFC6749: RFC6749
  ARF:
  	title: "The European Digital Identity Wallet Architecture and Reference Framework"

--- abstract

> This specification defines an extension to the OAuth 2 protocol as defined in {{RFC6749}} which enables a Client Instance to include an attestation in interactions with an Authorization Server or a Resource Server. This new method enables Client Instances involved in a client deployment that is traditionally viewed as a public client, to be able to provide an attestation to an Authorization server or Resource Server in order to authenticate as a Client Instance.

Reviewer: attestation -> assertion

Author: We will create a seperate issue to discuss this terminology change.

(6) The Client Instance sends both the Client Attestation JWT and the Client Attestation PoP JWT to the authorization server, e.g. within a token request. The authorization server validates the Client Attestation and thus authenticates the Client Instance.

> Note that the protocol for steps (2) and (4) and how the Client Instance authenticates to the Client Backend is out of scope of this specification.  Note also that this specification can be utilized without the client having a backend server at all; in this case, each Client Instance will perform the functions described as being done by the backend for itself.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please note that the protocol details for steps (2) and (4), particularly how the Client Instance authenticates to the client Backend, are beyond the scope of this specification. Furthermore, this specification is designed to be flexible and can be implemented even in scenarios where the client does not have a backend server. In such cases, each Client Instance is responsible for performing the functions typically handled by the backend on its own. 

This approach acknowledges the evolving landscape of OAuth 2.0 deployments, where the ability for public clients to authenticate securely and reliably has become increasingly important. 
```

(6) The Client Instance sends both the Client Attestation JWT and the Client Attestation PoP JWT to the authorization server, e.g. within a token request. The authorization server validates the Client Attestation and thus authenticates the Client Instance.

Please note that the protocol details for steps (2) and (4), particularly how the Client Instance authenticates to the client Backend, are beyond the scope of this specification. Furthermore, this specification is designed to be flexible and can be implemented even in scenarios where the client does not have a backend server. In such cases, each Client Instance is responsible for performing the functions typically handled by the backend on its own.

> This approach acknowledges the evolving landscape of OAuth 2 deployments, where the ability for public clients to authenticate securely and reliably has become increasingly important.

Reviewer 2: I created Issue #79 to pursue this topic

> This approach acknowledges the evolving landscape of OAuth 2.0 deployments, where the ability for public clients to authenticate securely and reliably has become increasingly important.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach acknowledges the evolving landscape of OAuth 2 deployments, where the ability for public clients to authenticate securely and reliably has become increasingly important.
```

> # Terminology

Reviewer 2: Add Client Instance as a term

Client Attestation JWT:
:  A JSON Web Token (JWT) generated by the client backend which is bound to a key managed by a Client Instance which can then be used by the instance for client authentication.

Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) JWT:
:  A Proof of Possession generated by the Client Instance using the key that the Client Attestation JWT is bound to.

Client Instance Key:
:  A cryptographic, asymmetric key generated by the Client Instance and proven to the client backend. The public key is contained in the Client Attestation JWT and is used to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.

# Client Attestation

> This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2 protocol, which consists of two JWT's, a Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP, which are conveyed via HTTP headers in an HTTP request sent by a client to an Authorisation Server or Resource Server. The purpose of these headers is to authenticate or attest to the Client Instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2 protocol, which consists of two JWT's, a Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP, which are conveyed via HTTP headers in an HTTP request sent by a client to an Authorization Server or Resource Server. The purpose of these headers is to authenticate or attest to the Client Instance.
```

# Terminology

Client Attestation JWT:
:  A JSON Web Token (JWT) generated by the client backend which is bound to a key managed by a Client Instance which can then be used by the instance for client authentication.

Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) JWT:
:  A Proof of Possession generated by the Client Instance using the key that the Client Attestation JWT is bound to.

Client Instance:

> : A deployed instance of a piece of client software.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
: A specific deployment or instantiation of a client application in the OAuth 2.0 framework, representing a single, distinct version of the client software running on a device or in an environment. Each Client Instance can have its own unique configuration, state, and identity, distinguishing it from other deployments of the same client application. This concept is particularly relevant in contexts where a client application might be installed and operated across multiple devices or environments, each requiring individual authentication and authorization processes with OAuth 2.0 Authorization Servers or Resource Servers.
```

Author: The existing definition is from an already published RFC and while it is short I believe it accurately captures the required detail

Client Instance Key:

> :  A cryptographic, asymmetric key generated by the Client Instance and proven to the client backend. The public key is contained in the Client Attestation JWT and is used to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  A cryptographic asymmetric key is generated by the Client Instance and its authenticity is proven to the client backend. The public key is encapsulated within the Client Attestation JWT and is utilized to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.
```

Author: ```suggestion
:  A cryptographic, asymmetric key that is generated by the Client Instance and its authenticity is proven to the client backend. The public key is encapsulated within the Client Attestation JWT and is utilized to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.
```

# Client Attestation

> This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2 protocol, which consists of two JWT's, a Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP, which are conveyed via HTTP headers in an HTTP request sent by a client to an Authorization Server or Resource Server. The purpose of these headers is to authenticate or attest to the Client Instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2.0 protocol, using two JWTs: a Client Attestation and a Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP). These JWTs are transmitted via HTTP headers in an HTTP request from a client to an Authorization Server or Resource Server. The primary purpose of these headers is to authenticate or attest to the identity of the Client Instance.
```

## Client Attestation HTTP Headers

A Client Attestation JWT and Client Attestation PoP JWT is included in an HTTP request using the following request header fields.

OAuth-Client-Attestation:

> :  A JWT that adheres to the structure and syntax as defined in [](#client-attestation-jwt)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
: A JWT that conforms to the structure and syntax as defined in [](#client-attestation-jwt)
```

OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP:
: A JWT that adheres to the structure and syntax as defined in [](#client-attestation-pop-jwt)

The following is an example of the OAuth-Client-Attestation header.

~~~

> OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBz\
> Oi8vY2xpZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODAsImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjc\
> nYiOiJQLTI1NiIsIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiwieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZE\
> FnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX19.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJ\
pc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBzOi8vY2x\
pZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODA\
sImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjcnYiOiJQLTI1NiI\
sIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiw\
ieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZEFnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX1\
9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

~~~

The following is an example of the OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP header.

~~~

> OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbX\
> BsZS5jb20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMzbIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwc\
zovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb\
20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMz\
bIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs
```

~~~

> Note that per {{RFC9110}} header field names are case-insensitive; so OAUTH-CLIENT-ATTESTATION, oauth-client-attestation, etc., are all valid and equivalent
> header field names. Case is significant in the header field value, however.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As specified in {{RFC9110}}, header field names are case-insensitive; therefore, OAUTH-CLIENT-ATTESTATION, oauth-client-attestation, and other case variations are all valid and equivalent header field names. However, it is important to consider that the case is significant in the value of the header field.
```

Author: I think the current language is sufficient even though it is a little more brief.

The OAuth-Client-Attestation and OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP header field values uses the token68 syntax defined in Section 11.2 of {{RFC9110}} (repeated below for ease of reference).

~~~
OAuth-Client-Attestation       = token68
OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP   = token68
token68                        = 1*( ALPHA / DIGIT /
                                     "-" / "." / "_" / "~" / "+" / "/" ) *"="
~~~

It is RECOMMENDED that the authorization server validate the Client Attestation JWT prior to validating the Client Attestation PoP.

## Client Attestation JWT {#client-attestation-jwt}

> The following rules apply to validating the Client Attestation JWT. Application of additional restrictions and policy are at the discretion of the authorization server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following rules apply to validating the Client Attestation JWT. Application of additional restrictions and policy are at the discretion of the Authorization Server.
```

# Terminology

Client Attestation JWT:
:  A JSON Web Token (JWT) generated by the client backend which is bound to a key managed by a Client Instance which can then be used by the instance for client authentication.

Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) JWT:
:  A Proof of Possession generated by the Client Instance using the key that the Client Attestation JWT is bound to.

Client Instance:
: A deployed instance of a piece of client software.

Client Instance Key:
:  A cryptographic, asymmetric key generated by the Client Instance and proven to the client backend. The public key is contained in the Client Attestation JWT and is used to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.

# Client Attestation

> This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2 protocol, which consists of two JWT's, a Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP, which are conveyed via HTTP headers in an HTTP request sent by a client to an Authorization Server or Resource Server. The purpose of these headers is to authenticate or attest to the Client Instance.

Reviewer: The concept of assertions was introduced in OAuth in RFC 7521 and RFC 7523 introduced use of JWTs as assertions to authenticate clients. This draft adds key binding on top of JWT-based client authentication.

Author: As above I think this is a more general terminology change we will tackle seperately, we have created an issue.

# Terminology

Client Attestation JWT:
:  A JSON Web Token (JWT) generated by the client backend which is bound to a key managed by a Client Instance which can then be used by the instance for client authentication.

Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) JWT:
:  A Proof of Possession generated by the Client Instance using the key that the Client Attestation JWT is bound to.

Client Instance:
: A deployed instance of a piece of client software.

Client Instance Key:

> :  A cryptographic asymmetric key pair that is generated by the Client Instance where the public key of the key pair is provided to the client backend. This public key is then encapsulated within the Client Attestation JWT and is utilized to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.

Reviewer 2: The text doesn't say Client Backend is out of scope as `iss` of the Client Attestation JWT is the Client Backend but only that how Client Backend authenticates the client instance is out of scope

# Client Attestation

> This draft introduces the concept of client attestations to the OAuth 2 protocol, using two JWTs: a Client Attestation and a Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP). These JWTs are transmitted via HTTP headers in an HTTP request from a Client Instance to an Authorization Server or Resource Server. The primary purpose of these headers is to authenticate the Client Instance.

Reviewer 2: It will be a dedicated discussion in OAuth Interims Call and we have a separate Issue #71

## Client Attestation HTTP Headers

A Client Attestation JWT and Client Attestation PoP JWT is included in an HTTP request using the following request header fields.

OAuth-Client-Attestation:
: A JWT that conforms to the structure and syntax as defined in [](#client-attestation-jwt)

OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP:
: A JWT that adheres to the structure and syntax as defined in [](#client-attestation-pop-jwt)

The following is an example of the OAuth-Client-Attestation header.

~~~
OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJ\
pc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBzOi8vY2x\
pZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODA\
sImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjcnYiOiJQLTI1NiI\
sIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiw\
ieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZEFnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX1\
9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
~~~

The following is an example of the OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP header.

~~~

> OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwc\

Reviewer 2: The example neither include nonce nor jti, so it does not have replay protection?

Author: Agreed created an issue to track seperately.

9. The JWT MUST be digitally signed using an asymmetric cryptographic algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject the JWT if it is using a Message Authentication Code (MAC) based algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject JWTs with an invalid signature.

10. The public key used to verify the JWT MUST be the key located in the "cnf" claim of the corresponding Client Attestation JWT.

> 11. The authorization server MUST reject a JWT that is not valid in all other respects per "JSON Web Token (JWT)" {{RFC7519}}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
11. The Authorization Server MUST reject a JWT that is not valid in all other respects per "JSON Web Token (JWT)" {{RFC7519}}.
```

To validate an HTTP request which contains the client attestation headers, the receiving server MUST ensure the following with regard to a received HTTP request:

1. There is precisely one OAuth-Client-Attestation HTTP request header field, where its value is a single well-formed JWT conforming to the syntax outlined in []{client-attestation-jwt}.
2. There is precisely one OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP request header field, where its value is a single well-formed JWT conforming to the syntax outlined in []{client-attestation-pop-jwt}.
3. The signature of the Client Attestation PoP JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP header verifies with the public key contained in the `cnf` claim of the Client Attestation JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation HTTP header.

# Client Attestation Access Token Request

While usage of the the client attestation mechanism defined by this draft can be used in a variety of different HTTP requests to different endpoints, usage with token endpoint as defined by {{RFC6749}} has particular additional considerations outlined below.

> The authorization server MUST perform all of the checks outlined in [](#checking-http-requests-with-client-attestations) for a received access token request which is making use of the client attestation mechanism as defined by this draft.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Authorization Server MUST perform all of the checks outlined in [](#checking-http-requests-with-client-attestations) for a received access token request which is making use of the client attestation mechanism as defined by this draft.
```

The following example demonstrates usage of the client attestation mechanism in an access token request (with extra line breaks for display purposes only):

~~~

> POST /token HTTP/1.1
> Host: as.example.com
> Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
> OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBz\
> Oi8vY2xpZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODAsImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjc\
> nYiOiJQLTI1NiIsIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiwieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZE\
> FnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX19.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
> OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbX\
> BsZS5jb20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMzbIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs
> 
> grant_type=authorization_code&
> code=n0esc3NRze7LTCu7iYzS6a5acc3f0ogp4

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJ\
pc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBzOi8vY2x\
pZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODA\
sImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjcnYiOiJQLTI1NiI\
sIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiw\
ieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZEFnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX1\
9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwc\
zovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb\
20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMz\
bIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs

grant_type=authorization_code&
code=n0esc3NRze7LTCu7iYzS6a5acc3f0ogp4
```

~~~

# Implementation Considerations

## Reuse of a Client Attestation JWT

> Implementers should be aware that the design of this authentication mechanism deliberately allows for a Client Instance to re-use a single Client Attestation JWT in multiple interactions/requests with an authorization server, whilst producing a fresh Client Attestation PoP JWT. Client deployments should consider this when determining the validity period for issued Client Attestation JWTs as this ultimately controls how long a Client Instance can re-use a single Client Attestation JWT.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Implementers should be aware that the design of this authentication mechanism deliberately allows for a Client Instance to re-use a single Client Attestation JWT in multiple interactions/requests with an Authorization Server, whilst producing a fresh Client Attestation PoP JWT. Client deployments should consider this when determining the validity period for issued Client Attestation JWTs as this ultimately controls how long a Client Instance can re-use a single Client Attestation JWT.
```

## Refresh token binding

Authorization servers issuing a refresh token in response to a token request using the client attestation mechanism as defined by this draft MUST bind the refresh token to the Client Instance, and NOT just the client as specified in section 6 {{RFC6749}}. To prove this binding, the Client Instance MUST use the client attestation mechanism when refreshing an access token. The client MUST also use the same key that was present in the "cnf" claim of the client attestation that was used when the refresh token was issued.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Implementers should consider the technical limitations of header sizes of the deployed web servers. If the Client Attestations size is becoming large, e.g. a `x5c` header containing multiple certificates with RSA keys as a trust mechanism, web server implementations receiving the HTTP request could fail as the header does not fit into the buffer dedicated for the HTTP headers. It shall be noted, that this limit is not given by the HTTP standard, but only by the technical implementations. As of 2024, typical limits for HTTP headers is 8 kB or above, which seems sufficient. 
```

Author: > Because the Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP are communicated using HTTP headers, implementers should consider that web servers may have a default maximum HTTP header size configured which could be too low to allow conveying a Client Attestation and or Client Attestation PoP in an HTTP request. It should be noted, that this limit is not given by the HTTP {{RFC9112}}, but instead web server implementations commonly set a default maximum size for HTTP headers. As of 2024, typical limits for modern web servers configure maximum HTTP headers as 8 kB as a default, which seems sufficient.

Author: ```suggestion

### Web Server Default Maximum HTTP Header Sizes

Because the Client Attestation and Client Attestation PoP are communicated using HTTP headers, implementers should consider that web servers may have a default maximum HTTP header size configured which could be too low to allow conveying a Client Attestation and or Client Attestation PoP in an HTTP request. It should be noted, that this limit is not given by the HTTP {{RFC9112}}, but instead web server implementations commonly set a default maximum size for HTTP headers. As of 2024, typical limits for modern web servers configure maximum HTTP headers as 8 kB as a default, which seems sufficient.
```

Reviewer 4: I don't think that "which seems sufficient" should be included.

Reviewer 4: anyway, this "default" limitation would have huge impacts on the topologies of the infrastructure of trust which will tend to not scale upon multiple intermediates, facilitating therefore the old-single-central-point. 

I see a regression, in a way that is as if we were trying as much as possible to distance ourselves from a potential complexity that we would like to avoid at all costs (and which will therefore haunt us!).

sImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjcnYiOiJQLTI1NiI\
sIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiw\
ieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZEFnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX1\
9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwc\
zovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb\
20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMz\
bIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs

grant_type=authorization_code&
code=n0esc3NRze7LTCu7iYzS6a5acc3f0ogp4
~~~

# Implementation Considerations

## Reuse of a Client Attestation JWT

Implementers should be aware that the design of this authentication mechanism deliberately allows for a Client Instance to re-use a single Client Attestation JWT in multiple interactions/requests with an authorization server, whilst producing a fresh Client Attestation PoP JWT. Client deployments should consider this when determining the validity period for issued Client Attestation JWTs as this ultimately controls how long a Client Instance can re-use a single Client Attestation JWT.

## Refresh token binding

> Authorization servers issuing a refresh token in response to a token request using the client attestation mechanism as defined by this draft MUST bind the refresh token to the Client Instance, and NOT just the client as specified in section 6 {{RFC6749}}. To prove this binding, the Client Instance MUST use the client attestation mechanism when refreshing an access token. The client MUST also use the same key that was present in the "cnf" claim of the client attestation that was used when the refresh token was issued.

Reviewer: Binding the refresh token to a client instance requires this draft to introduce a client instance identifier and makes client instances trackable across key binding JWTs. I suggest to bind the refresh token to the JWT instance id or the binding key instead.

Author: Im not sure I follow the current language does bind to the key represented in the "cnf" claim.

}
~~~

## Checking HTTP requests feature client attestations {#checking-http-requests-with-client-attestations}

To validate an HTTP request which contains the client attestation headers, the receiving server MUST ensure the following with regard to a received HTTP request:

1. There is precisely one OAuth-Client-Attestation HTTP request header field, where its value is a single well-formed JWT conforming to the syntax outlined in []{client-attestation-jwt}.
2. There is precisely one OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP request header field, where its value is a single well-formed JWT conforming to the syntax outlined in []{client-attestation-pop-jwt}.

> 3. The signature of the Client Attestation PoP JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP header verifies with the public key contained in the `cnf` claim of the Client Attestation JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation HTTP header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The signature of the Client Attestation PoP JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP HTTP header verifies with the Client Instance Key contained in the `cnf` claim of the Client Attestation JWT obtained from the OAuth-Client-Attestation HTTP header.
```

> # Client Attestation Access Token Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Client Attestation at the Token Endpoint
```

> While usage of the the client attestation mechanism defined by this draft can be used in a variety of different HTTP requests to different endpoints, usage with token endpoint as defined by {{RFC6749}} has particular additional considerations outlined below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While usage of the the client attestation mechanism defined by this draft can be used in a variety of different HTTP requests to different endpoints, usage within the token request as defined by {{RFC6749}} has particular additional considerations outlined below.
```

The following example demonstrates usage of the client attestation mechanism in an access token request (with extra line breaks for display purposes only):

~~~
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiAiRVMyNTYiLCJraWQiOiAiMTEifQ.eyJ\
pc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsInN1YiI6Imh0dHBzOi8vY2x\
pZW50LmV4YW1wbGUuY29tIiwibmJmIjoxMzAwODE1NzgwLCJleHAiOjEzMDA4MTkzODA\
sImNuZiI6eyJqd2siOnsia3R5IjoiRUMiLCJ1c2UiOiJzaWciLCJjcnYiOiJQLTI1NiI\
sIngiOiIxOHdITGVJZ1c5d1ZONlZEMVR4Z3BxeTJMc3pZa01mNko4bmpWQWlidmhNIiw\
ieSI6Ii1WNGRTNFVhTE1nUF80Zlk0ajhpcjdjbDFUWGxGZEFnY3g1NW83VGtjU0EifX1\
9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwc\
zovL2NsaWVudC5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb\
20iLCJuYmYiOjEzMDA4MTU3ODAsImV4cCI6MTMwMDgxOTM4MH0.coB_mtdXwvi9RxSMz\
bIey8GVVQLv9qQrBUqmc1qj9Bs

grant_type=authorization_code&
code=n0esc3NRze7LTCu7iYzS6a5acc3f0ogp4
~~~

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we explcitly say that this may be used at the PAR endpoint?

Author: Agreed, created an issue.

## Client Instance Tracking Across Authorization Servers

> Implementers should be aware that using the same client attestation across multiple authorization servers could result in correlation of the end user using the Client Instance through claim values (including the public key in the `cnf` claim). Client deployments are therefore RECOMMENDED to use different client attestations across different authorization servers.

Reviewer 2: applied with some additional corrections
